Pablo Picasso once said good artists
copy and great artists steal when it
comes to your Google ad campaigns taking
what's working from your competition
whether that be the keywords they're
bidding on or the ads that they've been
running the longest is absolutely key
for you to get ahead of the competition
take already what's working out there in
your marketplace take those learnings
and those insights and the hard-earned
money that your competition had to use
to find out what works and what doesn't
work take that knowledge from them and
then be able to use that to your
advantage so that when you launch your
campaigns or when you're optimizing your
campaigns you're already starting out
from the front because you're using
what's already been proven hey guys
Silvio Perez from ad conversion and in
today's video I want to show you how you
can spy on your Google Ads competition
and specifically I want to show you four
tools that I personally use and I find
very useful when it comes to spying on
the competition so you can get that
inside scoop now when it comes to spying
on the competition you actually need to
know who your competition is because if
not you're not going to know who to spy
on right now if you've already been
running Google ad campaigns you can go
to your auction insights report and in
that report you're going to get a
detailed list of all the different
competitors you're going up against so
that you can do research on them and if
in the case you have around Google ad
campaigns before maybe this is your
first time out of the gate or you're a
brand new business then I highly
recommend just doing some research on
Google find out who are the people in
the industry that you're going to be
going up against put together a list of
all their websites so that you can start
to spy on them and do the research
outlined in this video using one of
these four tools that I'm going to talk
about now the first tool you can use to
spy on your Google Ads competition is
the ad preview and diagnosis tool so the
first way you can spy on your
competition is using the ad preview and
diagnosis tool this tool is actually
meant to be used to see whether or not
your ads are actually serving but you
can also use it see what other
competitors are running on the same
keyword you are so to do that go to your
Google Ads account click tools and
settings and then under planning click
ad preview and diagnosis and then from
here just choose whatever location that
you're advertising in so I'm going to
put Miami Florida and let's just go with
this example if I'm a personal injury
it's her
and you can see here when I scroll down
you can see here all the different
people that are advertising on this
keyword in my targeted location so these
are all the different competitors if I
was a personal injury attorney in Miami
in this example these are all my
different competitors that are bidding
on these keywords so you can come here
and you can see all their different ads
you can get ideas for ad copy you can
get an understanding on who's showing up
the most often aside from using your
auction insights report so this is
another way for you to spy on the
competition and see what's going on you
can also switch the device preview here
from mobile to desktop and you can see
it in another format as well so you can
see here and acharn levine seems to be
the number one popping up so this is a
great way for you to get different ideas
you can also scroll all the way down
here don't forget up at the bottom three
ads to see more competitors and you can
get a really good understanding on more
or less who's in the auction place with
you the second tool you can use to spawn
your Google Ads competition is ad beat
which you can find at ad beat com the
second really cool tool you can use to
spawn your Google ads competition is
called ad beat and to get started with
this just go to ad beat com all you have
to do is create a free account and you
can just enter in your competitors
website address right here and then
you'll be able to get a lot of
information on them ad beats really
useful in terms of finding out different
like display ads that your your
competitors are running and seeing
overall what kind of traffic they're
receiving to their website now you're
come up your competitor has to have a
lot of traffic coming in they have to
have been you know have some sort of
presence already a lot of times if
they're like a small local business and
they don't really have much presence yet
this tool might not have picked them up
yet so you want to make sure that they
are bigger competitors that they have
some sort of traction but all you got to
do is just paste in whichever competitor
you're looking into and you'll see here
so let's say Nike is my competition I'm
gonna click search and you can see here
Nike pops up so I'm gonna click on Nike
comm and we're gonna see so much
information on Nike in terms of what
they're doing online with advertising so
you can see here you can get an overview
on you know what kind of ads they're
running standard native video landing
pages how many ads have been seen this
month
the different ad channels so direct
native programmatic you know their ad
creatives by size so you can get a lot
of detailed information right here their
ad types if it's html5 image image or
text etc publisher categories and then
you can see here you can this is my
favorite part about ad B is when you're
looking for display advertising creative
examples and you're looking up your
different competition you can see the
different ads that they're running so
this can give you a great understanding
on what your competitors are up to you
can also see here their video ads
they're running the landing pages
they're driving traffic to so this tool
is really cool it also gives you similar
advertisers so other competitors you
might not have thought of you can see
here as well for further information and
kind of going here with these standard
ads I can click on it and it's gonna go
ahead and open up a whole new window of
all of Nikes different ads so you can
see your advertiser ads so this is a
really cool tool you can get a lot of
good creative ideas and really get a
good understanding on the behind the
scenes of what your competition is doing
so I highly recommend checking out ad V
for those bigger competitors that are
running a lot of advertising so you can
see here all these different ads Nike
has been running so it's really cool so
definitely check out ad beat it's a
great tool for spying on the competition
the third tool you can use to spy on
your Google ads competition is I search
from and you can find that at I search
from calm I search from is an awesome
tool for performing Google searches in
places that you're not physically
located to get started with it just go
to I search from calm so for example
let's say you're a personal injury
attorney and you're advertising in Miami
Florida but you're not actually
physically located in Miami Florida and
you're let's say in New York right now
and you want to see all the different
searches happening in Miami Florida but
you're in New York that's where this
tool is really cool I search from you
can simulate those different google
searches in anywhere of the world as
long as you specify the country in the
city so to use this tool just go here to
I search from calm drop down to the
country put whichever country you're
trying to look in
- I'm gonna put United States you can
put whichever language I'm gonna leave
it to English device I usually never
touch but you can also change this as
well and put whatever your preference is
and then from there just type in one of
your keywords that you want to see all
the different competitors advertising
for so I'm gonna use that example
personal injury attorney and then down
here you have some more options right so
if you don't want to just see it at the
the national level right which is the
United States in this case you can
specify by city so that's what I'm gonna
do I'm gonna put Miami and then the rest
you can also change to you have some
additional options for the most part I
never really touched that it's usually
for me it's the the keyword for the
search the country the language and then
the specific city so then from there
once you have all that set just click
search and this is going to simulate
that google search as if we were
physically in that location so there we
go and now we can see all the different
ads popping up in real time in the
actual auction place now the only
drawback with the I search from tool is
if you click on one of these ads it's
not going to take you to their page so
if in the case you want to see their
actual website that they're driving this
traffic to you're just gonna have to
copy their URL address and then just
paste it into your browser that's the
only drawback with this tool but this is
a great tool to be able to perform those
Google searches anywhere in the world
despite where you're physically located
and finally the fourth tool you can use
to spawn your Google Ads competition is
spyfu and you can find that at spyfu com
spyfu is a paid tool but this is a great
tool for you to be able to see what
keywords your competition is bidding on
in the search campaigns as well as what
kind of ads they're running for those
keywords as well and you can really see
here with this tool what the best ads
they've been running which keywords
they've been bidding on the longest so
it's gonna give you a lot of information
in terms of what the competition is
doing so that you can really take that
inside look now spyfu
again it is a paid tool but they do
allow you some limited options if you
don't have a paid account you can do a
couple searches and you can see some
information so I'll show you what that
looks like just go ahead and type in
your competitors name I'm going
with a Nike example and then when I
search Nike it's gonna show me an
overview of the type of traffic they're
receiving from organic and paid so you
can see here Nike comm paid search on
the right and then organic SEO on the
left so this is also a great tool in
terms of SEO information when it comes
to spying on your competition but for
this video let's focus on paid search so
you can see here it says your estimated
budget for this competitor of Nike is
two hundred seven nine thousand dollars
a month 19 thousand keywords nine
hundred forty thousand PPC clicks etc
etc so a really cool thing with spyfu is
you can click into the keywords and you
can see what keywords are my competition
bidding on and the ads that they're
running for those different keywords as
well now if you don't have the paid
option you're gonna be limited as you
can see here it's asking you to log in
to see the results which means to create
an account but for even the limited
option you can still get some pretty
good information so for example if I
click on total ads it'll sort by total
ads and these are the ones that you want
to see the most you see this one right
here it's not showing me because I don't
have a paid account but the one that
says seven ads that's when you sort by
total ads the more ads they have per
keyword means they've been running ads
the longest for those keywords so you
know those are really good keywords for
them now to see their ads you can just
go up here under PPC research and you
can click on ad history or you can just
click on ad history right here at the
top and this is gonna give you examples
of what your competitors ads are so you
again you can see their copy you can you
can get ideas inspiration from it so
that when you go to write your own ads
you kind of take the best from what they
have to offer and make your own version
of it so this is loading and it's gonna
show on the left hand side the different
keywords and then on the right hand side
the different ads and their level of
visibility for the ads another cool
thing too with spyfu is it gives you
templates so they'll give you different
templates and things like that so
they'll make your life easier in terms
of creating campaigns and you can look
more into that but in the sake of spying
on your competition it's really gonna
come down to those those keywords
they're estimated budget and again the
ad history and you can see what that
looks like here
for the keyword Nike these are all the
different ads and you can scroll back
from the prior month so you see October
November December all the way back to
January I mean you can really really see
what your competitions been up to and
then you can see it on the right-hand
side says top ads this is the number one
because 16 percent of ads served was
this one so there's the the ad that gets
the most visibility and you can see
exactly what that looks like
so spy for you again it is a paid tool
you can use the free option eventually
you'll get limited and they'll they'll
ask you to make a new account but you
can get some good information on the
free version and if anything you can pay
for the paid plan for one month and then
just cancel after that that is it for
this video I hope you got tremendous
value from it I just want to say really
quickly this is just for spy tools and a
sea of many there are so many other spy
tools out there that you could use but
these are just the ones I use most
frequently and that's why I wanted to
share it so with that being said if you
like this video if you can give it a
thumbs up that'll help me get it ranked
higher in the search engines and if you
like content on Google advertising feel
free to subscribe to the channel I
create new content every single week and
if you want to receive additional google
ads content I highly recommend you sign
up to my newsletter and you can find
that in the description box down below
thanks so much for watching I'll see you
in the next one
take care